Below is my best, consolidated recommendation on how to handle mobile authentication for your iOS SwiftUI app—even if your web app uses session/cookie auth. I’ve considered both the context you provided and the other AI’s suggestions, and I’ll highlight why I think this approach is the best for most teams.

1. Use a Hybrid Auth Setup: Session Cookies for Web, Token‐Based (JWT) for Mobile
Why Keep Cookies on Web?

Your existing web app is already heavily built around express-session, Passport, and session cookies.
The overhead of rewriting the entire web logic to JWT is non-trivial.
Why Switch to JWT for iOS?

On a mobile device, you don’t want to depend on storing and syncing cookies.
With JWT, you can store access tokens securely in the iOS Keychain and simply attach an Authorization: Bearer <token> header to each request. This is straightforward in Swift and scales well.
Server‐Side Changes

Maintain your current session system for web users.
Add (or adapt) a few endpoints specifically for mobile:
POST /api/auth/mobile/login → returns a JWT (and possibly a refresh token).
POST /api/auth/mobile/refresh → returns a new access token if the refresh token is valid.
POST /api/auth/mobile/logout → (optional) if you want the server to invalidate refresh tokens.
Many production systems keep cookie sessions for web while offering JWT or personal access tokens for mobile apps. It’s a common and well‐understood pattern.

2. Create a JWT Generation & Verification Flow
JWT Generation

On successful login (via username+password or any method you support), the server signs a JWT with your SESSION_SECRET or a dedicated JWT_SECRET.
Include relevant user info in the token payload (e.g., userId: 123), but keep it minimal.
Token Lifespans

Typically, access tokens are short‐lived (e.g., 15 mins–1 hour).
Refresh tokens can last longer (days/weeks).
After the access token expires, the iOS app uses the refresh token to obtain a new access token.
Token Validation

A new middleware on your server can parse the Authorization header for mobile.
If the token is valid, attach the user info to req.user.
This logic can coexist with your existing “session‐cookie + Passport” middleware. For web routes, keep your session. For mobile routes, parse the JWT.

3. Implement a Secure Storage in iOS (Keychain)
Store Access & Refresh Tokens
On successful login, the server returns { accessToken, refreshToken }.
In SwiftUI, save them via a KeychainManager or a small utility class. For example:
swift
Copy
KeychainManager.save(key: "access_token", value: accessToken)
KeychainManager.save(key: "refresh_token", value: refreshToken)
Attach Access Token to Requests
In your APIClient.swift, before making any network call, retrieve the token from Keychain and set the Authorization header:
swift
Copy
request.addValue("Bearer \(token)", forHTTPHeaderField: "Authorization")
Refresh Logic
If a request fails with a 401 “token expired,” automatically call the refresh endpoint to get a new access token and retry.
4. Minimize Code Duplication and Keep Your DB Logic Unified
Shared User Table

You already have a users table with columns like id, username, email, etc. You can continue to use that for both web and mobile.
The main difference: web sessions store the user’s ID in req.session, while mobile routes decode the ID from a JWT.
Auth Logic

Your existing methods (e.g., findUserById, validatePassword, etc.) remain valid.
Just add new methods for issuing and verifying JWT tokens, possibly in server/auth/tokens.ts or server/auth/mobile.ts.
Plaid & Onboarding

The same logic to link a bank account or handle onboarding steps can be reused—only the authorization method differs (session vs. JWT).
Example:
typescript
Copy
router.post('/plaid/link/token', mobileOrSessionAuth, async (req, res) => {
  // ...
});
Where mobileOrSessionAuth is a custom middleware that checks either a valid session or a valid JWT.
5. Address Potential Pitfalls
CSRF / Security

For web sessions, you might have CSRF protection. JWT‐based requests typically don’t need CSRF because tokens are attached in headers, not cookies.
Make sure your mobile routes don’t break if you have a global CSRF middleware.
Refresh Tokens

JWT refresh tokens need to be stored in the DB or a secure token store if you want the ability to revoke them. Alternatively, you can just keep a short lifetime for the access token and require re‐login once it expires (less user‐friendly).
Error Handling

If your mobile auth fails, return a clear 401 Unauthorized JSON message so SwiftUI can prompt the user to log in again.
Naming & Routing

Keep your code organized by having routes for mobile under something like /api/mobile/auth/, or keep them in the same place but with “if mobile, do JWT; if web, do session” logic.
6. Final “Best Next Step”
Implement or Confirm a /mobile/login Endpoint

It should accept { username, password } and return { accessToken, refreshToken }.
Add a JWT Validation Middleware

For “mobile routes,” parse the Authorization header and validate the token using your secret.
Set Up iOS Keychain Storage

Store tokens securely and attach them in each request.
Write a Quick Refresh Flow

If the user’s access token expires, request a new one from /mobile/refresh.
Test

Make sure both “session cookie web” and “token‐based mobile” flows can coexist without interfering.
Why This Recommendation Is “Absolute Best”
Simplicity for iOS: JWT tokens are straightforward to handle in native mobile apps—no messing with cookies, just an Authorization header.
Preserves Your Web Setup: You don’t have to refactor your entire session/cookie approach for the web.
Scalable: Many real‐world apps run hybrid auth—session for web, tokens for mobile.
Ease of Implementation: You likely only need a few new routes, a JWT library, and some Swift code for Keychain. You’re not rewriting your entire backend.
